Add Astra DB blog post announcement (#284)
deepset-ai/haystack-home: content/blog/astradb-haystack-integration/index.md

Reviewer: One recommended edit

Line 16: Our last addition >> Our latest addition

---
layout: blog-post

> title: Announcing the Astra DB Haystack Integration

Reviewer 2: If we're talking about serverless, the correct product name is "Astra DB Serverless".

Reviewer 3: Astra DB is fine for this purpose

description: Learn how to use the new Astra DB integrations for Haystack 2.0 in your RAG pipelines.
featured_image: thumbnail.png
images: ["blog/astradb-haystack-integration/thumbnail.png"]
alt_image: The logos for Haystack and Astra DB hang out on a blue background in front of some people tending to pipelines, and inexplicably a giant lightbulb.
toc: True
date: 2024-01-18
last_updated:  2024-01-18
authors:
  - Tilde Thurium
tags: ["Embeddings", "Haystack 2.0", "Vector Database"]

> cookbook: astradb_haystack_integrations.ipynb

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
cookbook: astradb_haystack_integration.ipynb
```

> ---	

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
---
```

The Haystack extension family is growing so fast, it's hard to keep up! Our latest addition is the Astra DB extension by [Datastax](https://datastax.com/). It's an open source package that helps you use Astra DB as a vector database for your Haystack pipelines.

Let's learn about the benefits of Astra DB and how to use it with Haystack.

### Benefits of Astra DB

DataStax Astra DB is a serverless vector database built on [Apache Cassandra](https://cassandra.apache.org/_/index.html). What makes Astra DB special?

- **Interoperability** with Cassandra's open source ecosystem and tooling. 

> - Astra DB a **supports variety of different embedding models**. One Astra database instance can have multiple `collections` with different vector sizes. This makes it easy to test different embedding models and find the best one for your use case.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Astra DB **supports a variety of different embedding models**. One Astra database instance can have multiple `collections` with different vector sizes. This makes it easy to test different embedding models and find the best one for your use case.
```

- **It's serverless**. What does that mean for a database? You don't have to manage individual instances, or deal with cumbersome upgrading or scaling. All of that is taken care of for you behind the scenes.

> - **Enterprise scalability**. Astra DB can be deployed across the major cloud provides (AWS, GCP, or Azure) across multiple regions depending on your needs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Enterprise scalability**. Astra DB can be deployed across the major cloud providers (AWS, GCP, or Azure) and across multiple regions depending on your needs.
```

- As of the time of this writing, **there's a free tier available** so you can try it without putting down a credit card.

> ### Creating your Astra DB database

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Create your Astra DB database
```

> To ensure these instructions remain up to date, we're going to point you to the Astra DB docs to explain how to create a database.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the Astra DB Serverless docs to learn how to create a database.
```

> Follow the first step in this [this tutorial to create a free Astra DB database](https://docs.datastax.com/en/astra-serverless/docs/manage/db/manage-create.html). Make a note of your credentials - you'll need your database ID, application token, keyspace, and database region to use the Haystack extension.
> 
> [Follow these steps to create a collection](https://docs.datastax.com/en/astra/astra-db-vector/databases/manage-collections.html). Save the name of your collection since you'll need this as well. 
> 
> Choose the number of dimensions that matches the [embedding model](https://haystack.deepset.ai/blog/what-is-text-vectorization-in-nlp) you plan on using. For this example we'll use a 384-dimension model, [`sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2`](https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2).

Reviewer 2: Updated links, phrasing, and put the items in a list since they need to be followed in order.

```suggestion
1. [Create a free Astra DB database](https://docs.datastax.com/en/astra/astra-db-vector/databases/create-database.html#create-vector-database). Make a note of your credentials - you'll need your database ID, application token, keyspace, and database region to use the Haystack extension.
2. Choose the number of dimensions that matches the [embedding model](https://haystack.deepset.ai/blog/what-is-text-vectorization-in-nlp) you plan on using. For this example we'll use a 384-dimension model, [`sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2`](https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2).
3. [Create a collection](https://docs.datastax.com/en/astra/astra-db-vector/databases/manage-collections.html#create-collection) with the same number of dimensions as your embedding model. Save the name of your collection since you'll need this as well. 
```

> ### Getting started with the AstraDB Haystack Integration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Get started with the Astra DB Haystack Integration
```

> First, you need to install it:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, install the integration:
```

```bash
pip install astra-haystack sentence-transformers
```

> Remember earlier when I mentioned you were going to need your credentials? I hope you saved them. If not, that's okay, you can go back to the [Astra console](https://astra.datastax.com/) and grab them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Remember earlier when I mentioned you were going to need your credentials? I hope you saved them. If not, that's okay, you can go back to the [Astra Portal](https://astra.datastax.com/) and grab them.
```

> Note: if you were running this code in production, you'd want to save these as environment variables to keep things nice and secure.

```python
from getpass import getpass

OPENAI_API_KEY = getpass("Enter your openAI key:")
ASTRA_DB_ID = getpass("Enter your Astra database ID:")
ASTRA_DB_APPLICATION_TOKEN = getpass("Enter your Astra application token (e.g.AstraCS:xxx ):")
ASTRA_DB_REGION = getpass("Enter your AstraDB Region: ")
ASTRA_DB_COLLECTION_NAME = getpass("enter your Astra collection name:")
ASTRA_DB_KEYSPACE_NAME = getpass("Enter your Astra keyspace name:")
```

## Using the Astra DocumentStore in an index pipeline 

> Next we'll make a Haystack pipeline, create some embeddings from documents, and add them into the [`AstraDocumentStore`](https://docs.haystack.deepset.ai/v2.0/docs/astradocumentstore).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, we'll make a Haystack pipeline, create some embeddings from documents, and add them into the [`AstraDocumentStore`](https://docs.haystack.deepset.ai/v2.0/docs/astradocumentstore).
```

    astra_keyspace=ASTRA_DB_KEYSPACE_NAME,
    astra_application_token=ASTRA_DB_APPLICATION_TOKEN,
    duplicates_policy=DuplicatePolicy.SKIP,
    embedding_dim=384,
)

# Add Documents
documents = [
    Document(content="There are over 7,000 languages spoken around the world today."),
    Document(
        content="Elephants have been observed to behave in a way that indicates"
        " a high level of self-awareness, such as recognizing themselves in mirrors."
    ),
    Document(
        content="In certain parts of the world, like the Maldives, Puerto Rico, "
        "and San Diego, you can witness the phenomenon of bioluminescent waves."
    ),
]
index_pipeline = Pipeline()
index_pipeline.add_component(
    instance=SentenceTransformersDocumentEmbedder(model=embedding_model_name),
    name="embedder",
)
index_pipeline.add_component(instance=DocumentWriter(document_store=document_store, policy=DuplicatePolicy.SKIP), name="writer")
index_pipeline.connect("embedder.documents", "writer.documents")

index_pipeline.run({"embedder": {"documents": documents}})

print(document_store.count_documents())
```
If all has gone well, there should be 3 documents. 🎉

> ## Using the `AstraRetriever` in a Haystack RAG pipeline

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Use the `AstraRetriever` in a Haystack RAG pipeline
```

Author: why "Use" instead of "Using"? Not opposed just curious about your reasoning.

Reviewer 2: In general, gerunds aren't a best practice for technical writing.

> In Haystack, every `DocumentStore` is tightly coupled with the `Retriever` that fetches from it. Astra is no exception. Here we'll create a RAG pipeline, where the [`AstraRetriever`](https://docs.haystack.deepset.ai/v2.0/docs/astraretriever) will fetch documents relevant to our query.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Haystack, every `DocumentStore` is tightly coupled with the `Retriever` that fetches from it. Astra DB is no exception. Here we'll create a RAG pipeline, where the [`AstraRetriever`](https://docs.haystack.deepset.ai/v2.0/docs/astraretriever) will fetch documents relevant to our query.
```

                """

rag_pipeline = Pipeline()
rag_pipeline.add_component(
    instance=SentenceTransformersTextEmbedder(model=embedding_model_name),
    name="embedder",
)
rag_pipeline.add_component(instance=AstraRetriever(document_store=document_store), name="retriever")
rag_pipeline.add_component(instance=PromptBuilder(template=prompt_template), name="prompt_builder")
rag_pipeline.add_component(instance=OpenAIGenerator(api_key=OPENAI_API_KEY), name="llm")
rag_pipeline.add_component(instance=AnswerBuilder(), name="answer_builder")
rag_pipeline.connect("embedder", "retriever")
rag_pipeline.connect("retriever", "prompt_builder.documents")
rag_pipeline.connect("prompt_builder", "llm")
rag_pipeline.connect("llm.replies", "answer_builder.replies")
rag_pipeline.connect("llm.meta", "answer_builder.meta")
rag_pipeline.connect("retriever", "answer_builder.documents")

# Run the pipeline
question = "How many languages are there in the world today?"
result = rag_pipeline.run(
    {
        "embedder": {"text": question},
        "retriever": {"top_k": 2},
        "prompt_builder": {"question": question},
        "answer_builder": {"query": question},
    }
)

print(result)
```

> The output should be something like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The output should look like this:
```

```bash
{'answer_builder': {'answers': [GeneratedAnswer(data='There are over 7,000 languages spoken around the world today.', query='How many languages are there in the world today?', documents=[Document(id=cfe93bc1c274908801e6670440bf2bbba54fad792770d57421f85ffa2a4fcc94, content: 'There are over 7,000 languages spoken around the world today.', score: 0.9267925, embedding: vector of size 384), Document(id=6f20658aeac3c102495b198401c1c0c2bd71d77b915820304d4fbc324b2f3cdb, content: 'Elephants have been observed to behave in a way that indicates a high level of self-awareness, such ...', score: 0.5357444, embedding: vector of size 384)], meta={'model': 'gpt-3.5-turbo-0613', 'index': 0, 'finish_reason': 'stop', 'usage': {'completion_tokens': 14, 'prompt_tokens': 83, 'total_tokens': 97}})]}}
```

## Wrapping it up

> If you've gotten this far, now you know how to use AstraDB as a data source for your Haystack pipeline. Thanks for reading! To learn more about Haystack, [join us on Discord](https://discord.gg/QMP5jgMH) or [sign up for our monthly newsletter](https://landing.deepset.ai/haystack-community-updates?utm_campaign=developer-relations&utm_source=astradb-haystack-notebook).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you've gotten this far, now you know how to use Astra DB as a data source for your Haystack pipeline. To learn more about Haystack, [join us on Discord](https://discord.gg/QMP5jgMH) or [sign up for our monthly newsletter](https://landing.deepset.ai/haystack-community-updates?utm_campaign=developer-relations&utm_source=astradb-haystack-notebook).
```
